# Heuristic Evaluation

- A small set of evaluators are used to evaluate a prototype based on certain principles / criteria. Each evaluator will be a domain expert and will be asked to focus and give feedback only on a specific domain. Eg : Interface, User Experience, Customer journey etc

- 3- 5 is an ideal number of evalluaors
- Can be done in two passes. One on a very high level for the overview and then go in detail

#### Neilsens' 
- Visibility of system status Eg : Progress bar. It may not be an easy task from a user perspective it is very important
	- >1-2: Cursor / busy indicator
	- >2  : potential length of wait
	- >5  : Animated progress bar
	- >10 : Keep users informed / entertained : Eg : Details / File which is being copied
	- >15 :Noticeable sound / strong visual indication to bring the user back
- Match betweeb system and real world
	- Use concepts and terminaology that users are already familar with
	- Avoid technical jargon ( Eg : PNR number)
	- Use an outsider to evaluate
	- Consider culltural aspects
	- Skeuomorphism	
		- Interaface object mimics real world counterpart in how they appear
- User control and freedom
	- Fewer constraints for the user
	- Eg : Do not close the browser until transaction is complete
	- Interface language : remember the user is in control
		- "The applications enable you to scan" rather than "The Application allows you to scan"
- Consistence and standards
	- Using same look and feel on all pages 
	- Using consistent terminology : Eg : Ok on one page and Confirm on another page
	- Predictability of actions, locations of widgets etc. Where Pop up happen. Where OK and Cancel happens. 
	- Create design rules which has to be used by everyone in team
- Errors : Wrong mental model probelm vs slips : errors in execution
	- Offering suggestions / Autocomplete to reduce error
	- Forgiving in syntax : Even if a person enter 1 for date instead of 01, as the syntax is dd it should work
	- Use Good defaults
	- Add constraints to make it dificult to commit them
	- Avoiding errors in possible
	- Have interlocks at front end itself rather than giving the error at a later stage
- Prefer recognition to recall
	- Recognition is more efficient.
	- If we can enable the user to do recognition, it would be good. 
- Flexibility and efficency of use
	- Sticky settings so users can change settigs in the way they want, so that they do not have to set it up every time?
- Asethetic and Minimalistic design
	- Good graphics and keep instructions short
- Help users recignize, diagnose and recover from errors
	- It can be a self resolution or contacting support
	- Induce errors while testing to see how the app behaves
	- Provide actionable advise
	- Shift blame to yourself
	- Restate exectly what happened
	- Error has to be understandable by the user or the operator
	- Understand the criticality of the error and importance of user to resolve issues
- Provision of help and documentation
	- Help should be searchale, context sensitive, task oriented, concrete and short

### Domain Heuristics
- Domain specific heuristics has to be developed
- Jerk Free interfaces
	- Eg : Flash Of Unstyled Content : FOUK
		- This is not a good way to develop and application as the screen changes on detecting certain things. Instead of loading frame and then loading content, so that the user see's the content changing without an action. It can be preceeded by a blank screen or a loader. 
	
Readings : 
 ====Jakon Neilsen and Don Norman researches on design
- DOn Norman : The design of everyday things
